Encode for hash update (#230)
decentralized-identity/bbs-signature: draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures.md

: A payload generated and bound to the context of a specific spk.

nizk

> : A non-interactive zero-knowledge proof from Fiat-Shamir heuristic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A non-interactive zero-knowledge proof from the Fiat-Shamir heuristic.
```

Aside from the message generators, the scheme uses two additional generators: `Q_1` and `Q_2`. The first (`Q_1`), is used for the blinding value (`s`) of the signature. The second generator (`Q_2`), is used to sign the signature's domain, which binds both the signature and generated proofs to a specific context and cryptographically protects any potential application-specific information (for example, messages that must always be disclosed etc.).

### Serializing to octet strings

> When serializing different types of elements (i.e., Points, Scalars etc.) to get their octet representation, each element will be serialized with a specific operation, depending on its type. More concretely,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When serializing one or more values to produce an octet string, each element will be encoded using a specific operation determined by its type. More concretely,
```

- Points in `G*` will be serialized using the `point_to_octets_g*` implementation for a particular ciphersuite.
- Non-negative integers will be serialized using `I2OSP` with an output length of 8 bytes.
- Scalars will be serialized using `I2OSP` with a constant output length defined by a particular ciphersuite.

> - ASCII strings will be transformed into octet strings using UTF-8 encoding.

Reviewer 2: ```
- ASCII strings will be transformed into octet strings using UTF-8 encoding.
```

This reads a little strangely as there is no transformation involved, ASCII strings are UTF-8 strings.

Author: I do agree with this. The current rule followed in the doc, is that ASCII string refers to text and ASCII code refers to bytes (note the ciphersuite id and DSTs encodings).

We could make this clearer by updating ASCII string -> Text or ASCII text or String??

Since this affects the whole doc, IMO its better to open a issue for tracking and address it in a separate PR?

Author: Opened #234 to track this issue!

> Variable length octet strings, will be prepended with a value representing the length of their binary representation in the form of the number of bytes. This length must be encoded to octets using I2OSP with output length of 8 bytes. The combined value (encoded value + length prefix) binary representation is then encoded as a single octet string. For example, the string `0x14d` will be encoded as `0x0000000000000002014d`. If the length of the octet string is larger than 2^64 - 1, the octet string must be rejected. Similarly, ASCII strings, after encoded to octets (using utf8), will also be appended with the length of their octet-string representation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Variable-length octet strings will be prepended with an integer value representing the number of bytes in the string. This length is encoded to octets using `I2OSP` with an output length of 8 bytes. For example, the octet string `0x14d` is encoded as `0x0000000000000002014d`. If the length of the octet string exceeds `2^64 - 1`, the octet string must be rejected. ASCII strings are also encoded using this process by first converting to an octet string.
```

> Constant length octet strings (e.g., the ciphersuite id octet representation), will be encoded directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Constant-length octet strings, including domain separation tags and the ciphersuite ID, will be encoded directly without prefixing with the length.
```

> Optional input/parameters to operations that feature in a call to hash\_to\_scalar, that are not supplied to the operation should default to an empty octet string. For example, if X is an optional input/parameter that is not supplied, whilst A and B are required, then the procedural step of `hash(A || X || B)` MUST be evaluated to `hash(A || "" || B)`.

Reviewer 2: I think we should just be explicit about what the defaults are for each variable at the point of use

Author: Agreed. Removed the paragraph on optional inputs. For constant length octet strings will revisit after #232 is resolved.

11. return (scalar_1, ..., scalar_count)
```

## Domain Calculation

> This operation calculates the domain value, a scalar encoding public parameter information. Optionally, the domain can also include an additional octet string, called the header, meant to encode any additional information the signer may want to "bind" to the signature (like an expiration date, the targeted audience identifier etc.). The domain value will be signed using a specific generator point (`Q_2`) (see [Sign](#sign)) to protect the integrity of those public parameters. The header, if existing, must be known by all parties (i.e., the signer, the prover and verifier), for both the signature and proof to be validated correctly. This means, that the header can be used to enforce certain values (chosen by the signer) to always be disclosed by the prover.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This operation calculates the domain value, a scalar representing the distillation of all essential contextual information for a signature. The same domain value must be calculated by all parties (the signer, the prover, and the verifier) for both the signature and proofs to be validated correctly.

The input to the domain value includes an octet string called the header, chosen by the signer and meant to encode any information that is required to be revealed by the prover (such as an expiration date, or an identifier for the target audience). This is in contrast to the signed message values, which may be withheld during a proof.

When a signature is calculated, the domain value is combined with a specific generator point (`Q_2`, see [Sign](#sign)) to protect the integrity of the public parameters and the header.
```

This operation makes use of the `serialize` function, defined in [Section 4.6.1](#serialize).

```

> domain = get_domain(Q_1, Q_2, H_Points, PK, header)

Reviewer 2: Calls to this method have PK as the first argument.

Reviewer 2: Maybe `encode_domain` (and `encode_challenge`) would be more descriptive?

Reviewer 2: Or `derive_`, `calculate_`, `hash_`, etc...

Author: Done! (used `calculate_`).

Inputs:

- PK (REQUIRED), octet string, representing the public key of the
                 Signer of the form outputted by the SkToPk operation.
- (Q_1, Q_2) (REQUIRED), points of G1 (the first 2 points returned from
                         create_generators).
- H_Points (REQUIRED), array of points of G1.
- header (OPTIONAL), octet string. If not supplied, it must default to
                     the empty octet string ("").

Parameters:

- ciphersuite_id, ASCII string. The unique ID of the ciphersuite.

Outputs:

- domain, a scalar value or INVALID.

Procedure:

1. L = length(H_Points)
2. if length(header) > 2^64 - 1 or L > 2^64 - 1, return INVALID
3. (H_1, ..., H_L) = H_Points

> 4. dom_array = (Q_1, Q_2, L, H_1, ..., H_L, ciphersuite_id)

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't `ciphersuite_id` be appended later and not passed to `serialize`?

Reviewer 2: Ah, I see there is a rule for ASCII strings.

Author: Yea. I was trying to follow the "encode everything that are not already octet strings" rule. I agree that this may not be optimal though. Opened #234 to discuss further.

5. dom_octs = serialize(dom_array)
6. if dom_octs is INVALID, return INVALID
7. dom_input = PK || dom_octs || I2OSP(length(header), 8) || header
8. return hash_to_scalar(dom_input, 1)
```

> **Note**: If the header is not supplied in `get_domain`, it defaults to the empty octet string (""). This means that in the concatenation step of the above procedure (step 7), 8 bytes representing a length of 0 (i.e., `0x0000000000000000`), will still need to be appended at the end, even though the a header value is not provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: If the header is not supplied in `get_domain`, it defaults to the empty octet string ("").
```

I think it's clear in the algorithm that the length is always included

Author: That's true, though IMO it would be an easy mistake to make.

its clear only if you notice the `If not supplied, it must default to the empty octet string ("")` part. If someone misses that and only notice the capitalized `(OPTIONAL)` could maybe make this mistake??

Author: maybe we could update the text to say `If not supplied, it must default to the empty octet string ("") **that has 0 length**`

## Challenge Calculation

This operation calculates the challenge scalar value, used during [ProofGen](#proofgen) and [ProofVerify](#proofverify), as part of the Fiat-Shamir heuristic, for making the proof protocol non-interactive (in a interactive sating, the challenge would be a random value supplied by the verifier).

This operation makes use of the `serialize` function, defined in [Section 4.6.1](#serialize).

```
challenge = get_challenge(A', Abar, D, C1, C2, i_array,
                                                  msg_array, domain, ph)

Inputs:

- (A', Abar, D, C1, C2) (REQUIRED), points of G1, as calculated in
                                    ProofGen
- i_array (REQUIRED), array of non-negative integers (the indexes of
                      the disclosed messages).
- msg_array (REQUIRED), array of scalars (the disclosed messages).

> - domain (REQUIRED), octet string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- domain (REQUIRED), a scalar.
```

```

### ProofToOctets

This operation describes how to encode a proof, as computed at step 25 in [ProofGen](#proofgen), to an octet string. The input to the operation MUST be a valid proof.

The inputted proof value must consist of the following components, in that order:

1. Three (3) valid points of the G1 subgroup, different from the identity point of G1 (i.e., `A', Abar, D`, in ProofGen)
2. Five (5) integers representing scalars in the range of 1 to r-1 inclusive (i.e., `c, e^, r2^, r3^, s^`, in ProofGen).
3. A number of integers representing scalars in the range of 1 to r-1 inclusive, corresponding to the undisclosed from the proof messages (i.e., `m^_j1, ..., m^_jU`, in ProofGen, where U the number of undisclosed messages).

```
proof_octets = proof_to_octets(proof)

Inputs:

- proof (REQUIRED), a BBS proof in the form calculated by ProofGen in
                    step 27 (see above).

Parameters:

- octet_scalar_length (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The length of
                                  a scalar octet representation, defined
                                  by the ciphersuite.

Outputs:

- proof_octets, octet string or INVALID.

Procedure:

> 1. (A', Abar, D, c, e^, r2^, r3^, s^, (m^_1, ..., m^_U)) = proof

Author: Not a bad idea to add some redundancy in the proof value. Would also make the suggestion in #227 easier to implement.

That said, since `ProofVerify` is not a terribly inefficient operation, not sure how much will provide beyond some useful error information? Also, is truncating the proof something that will (somewhat) "commonly" happen (i assume not as much in the application layer)??

In any case it seems that it would be better addressed in a separate PR, so will open an issue to track the conversation and will resolve this comment if that is ok? Please feel free to un-resolve!

> 1. (A', Abar, D, c, e^, r2^, r3^, s^, (m^_1, ..., m^_U)) = proof

Author: opened #233 to track the issue!
